v2 version (#239)
hatnote/montage: dev_v2.md

---

## Overview

The **Montage Project** is a web application with two main components:

1. **Frontend**:
   - Built with **Vue 3**.
   - Includes **Wikimedia Codex** for UI components, **Axios** for API requests, and **Pinia** for state management.
   - Compiled using **Vite** for fast builds.

2. **Backend**:
   - Built with **Clastic**, a Python framework.
   - Uses various Python libraries such as:
     - **SQLAlchemy**: Database interactions.
     - **mwoauth**: Used for authentication with MediaWiki’s OAuth.
     - **pymysql**: MySQL driver.
   - Serves the frontend and exposes API endpoints for application functionality.

---

## Prerequisites

Ensure the following are installed:
- **Docker** and **Docker Compose**: [Install Docker](https://www.docker.com/products/docker-desktop).
- **Node.js** (v16 or above): [Install Node.js](https://nodejs.org).
- **Make**: Available on most Unix-based systems.

---

## Setting Up the Project

### 1. Clone the Repository
```bash
git clone git@github.com:hatnote/montage.git
cd montage
```

### 2. Start the Frontend Build Watcher
```bash
cd frontend
npm install
npm run watch:build
```

> ⚠️ **Frontend does not run in dev mode**: This will:watch for changes by using `chokidar` command and automatically copied to the backend's `static` and `template` directories. So there will not be any hot reloading. Developers must refresh the browser to see updates.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
⚠️ **Frontend does not run in dev mode**: `npm run watch:build` above will watch for changes by using `chokidar` command and automatically copied to the backend's `static` and `template` directories. So there will not be any hot reloading. Developers must refresh the browser to see updates.
```

Apart from `npm watch:build`, these are other commands:
* `npm run lint`: Lint the code
* `npm run format`: Format the code

### 3. Use the Makefile to start the backend

> * Open a new termial tab and change directory to root of repo

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Open a new terminal tab and change directory to root of repo
```

* Copy and edit `config.dev.yaml` based on `config.default.yaml`
* (Optional) In `config.dev.yaml` there is a line for `dev_local_cookie_value`. To get it,
log in to the local app in your browser, and then copy the value from the
`clastic_cookie` in the apps' cookies. This is your login cookie.
* (Optional) Add your username as the `superuser` in the config. (This will allow you to
add `su_to=<any user>` to the backend, if you want to test submitting as another

> juror.)

Reviewer: this is fine to mention, but I believe su_to is mostly used by automated tests these days :)
